CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# How to Contribute

Thank you for considering helping out!

Looking to contribute changes to this project?  Feel free to make the change yourself. You're in the right place to get started.

First, please read the [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). We take it very seriously!

Next, if you want to help out, do the following:

1. Fork the project.
2. Make a feature branch with the name of your change.
3. Make a change.
4. Commit your code.
5. Issue a Pull Request.

Once your PR is issued, we will review your work and decide on adding it to the project!

For more details about contributing to GitHub projects see
http://gun.io/blog/how-to-github-fork-branch-and-pull-request/

## Contributor License Agreement

Before Comcast merges your code into the project you must sign the [Comcast Contributor License Agreement (CLA)](https://gist.github.com/ComcastOSS/a7b8933dd8e368535378cda25c92d19a).

If you haven't previously signed a Comcast CLA, you'll automatically be asked to when you open a pull request. Alternatively, we can e-mail you a PDF that you can sign and scan back to us. Please send us an e-mail or create a new GitHub issue to request a PDF version of the CLA.

Commit message:

Put TODO list into its own file and lnked to it.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# How to Contribute

Thank you for considering helping out!

Looking to contribute changes to this project?  Feel free to make the change yourself. You're in the right place to get started.

First, please read the [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). We take it very seriously!

Next, if you want to help out, do the following:

1. Fork the project.
2. Make a feature branch with the name of your change.
3. Make a change.
4. Commit your code.
5. Issue a Pull Request.

Once your PR is issued, we will review your work and decide on adding it to the project!

Need ideas on what to contribute?  Please check out [our TODO list](TODO).

For more details about contributing to GitHub projects see
http://gun.io/blog/how-to-github-fork-branch-and-pull-request/

## Contributor License Agreement

Before Comcast merges your code into the project you must sign the [Comcast Contributor License Agreement (CLA)](https://gist.github.com/ComcastOSS/a7b8933dd8e368535378cda25c92d19a).

If you haven't previously signed a Comcast CLA, you'll automatically be asked to when you open a pull request. Alternatively, we can e-mail you a PDF that you can sign and scan back to us. Please send us an e-mail or create a new GitHub issue to request a PDF version of the CLA.
